Create 2019-12-28-countdown-to-the-new-year-ember-changeset.md (#469)
ember-learn/ember-blog: source/2019-12-28-countdown-to-the-new-year-ember-changeset.md

---
title: Countdown to The New Year - Ember Changeset
author: Scott Newcomer
tags: 2019, Addons, DecEmber
alias: 2019-12-28-countdown-to-the-new-year-ember-changeset.md
responsive: true
---

**This is the 28th in our DecEmber series–"Countdown to The New Year: 31 Days of Ember Addons". We plan to highlight a new addon each day until the new year, and we hope you'll join us for the fun!**

## Day 28

For the 28th edition of **Countdown to The New Year** we're going to take a
look at [`ember-changeset`](https://emberobserver.com/addons/ember-changeset).

> ### Ember Changeset - What It Does

Reviewer: I think for the December series title formatting, we currently use the following - what do you think?

```suggestion
### What It Does

```

Managing data associated with forms can sometimmes be unwieldy. As a result, we have borrowed concepts from the Elixir [community](https://hexdocs.pm/ecto/Ecto.Changeset.html#content) to give you the ability to prevent mutating the underlying object until the last possible moment when you have decided to apply the changes and the data is valid. This functional approach to validations has proved to be quite useful.

This addon works in conjunction with [`ember-changeset-validations`](https://github.com/poteto/ember-changeset-validations/) to provide you with out of the box validations to validate the format of a certain input, ensure passwords pass a minimum security threshold or even let you build your own custom validator!

> ### Ember Changeset - Why I Like It

Reviewer: What do you think about the following? This should resolve the markdown lint error on CI:

```suggestion
### Why I Like It

```

> Recently I [rewrote](https://github.com/poteto/ember-changeset/pull/379) `ember-changeset` to support Octane patterns and utilized `@tracked`.  As a result, not only can you validate and apply changes to top level keys (`person`), nested keys such as `person.firstName` are now easily possible.  In addition, at the same time `@pzuraq`'s blog post [Do You Need EmberObject?](https://www.pzuraq.com/do-you-need-ember-object/) came out, we removed `EmberObject`, giving you a simpler base class to work with.  Currently this functionality is still in `v3` beta.  We plan to exit the beta period and do a proper `3.0.0` release in the near future for apps supporting `ember-source` >= 3.13.

Reviewer: What do you think about the following wording instead to resolve the language check error?

```suggestion
Recently I [rewrote](https://github.com/poteto/ember-changeset/pull/379) `ember-changeset` to support Octane patterns and utilized `@tracked`.  As a result, not only can you validate and apply changes to top level keys (`person`), nested keys such as `person.firstName` may also be used.  In addition, at the same time `@pzuraq`'s blog post [Do You Need EmberObject?](https://www.pzuraq.com/do-you-need-ember-object/) came out, we removed `EmberObject`, giving you a simpler base class to work with.  Currently this functionality is still in `v3` beta.  We plan to exit the beta period and do a proper `3.0.0` release in the near future for apps supporting `ember-source` >= 3.13.
```
